baremetal/README.adoc, before:

= BareMetal
:toc:
:sectnums:

[quote,Foreword]
____
An virtualize environment is already available in this repository. +
Let's groove metal.
____

== Prerequisites

=== Tools

psql:: Communicate with PostgreSQL database
https://github.com/medialab/xan[xan]:: Execute script that read csv files

=== Host file

Add line to `/etc/hosts`

----
127.0.0.1 foobar.openchami.cluster
----

== Short glossary

CN:: compute node
RFE:: redfish endpoint

== Networks

There is two networks:

out of band:: The network for `BMCs`
compute nodes:: The network for compute nodes

[%header,format=csv]
|===
include::data/networks.csv[]
|===

== Machines

Three type of machines:

BMC:: is connected on out of band's network, handle compute node.
Compute node:: is connected on compute nodes' network, is the target of provisioning
Management:: is connected on both network, it communicate with `BMCs` and nodes

[%header,format=csv]
|===
include::data/machines.csv[]
|===

== SSH configuration

Assuming you have access to the management machine with root user by

[source,bash]
----
ssh admin
----

== Components

https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/coresmd[CoreDHCP]:: provide IP and URL to where fetching the `iPXE` script
https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/bss[BSS]:: provide `iPXE` script with kernel and `initrd` parameters
https://github.com/openCHAMI/smd[SMD]:: Contains data for hardware components

== Sequence

Just a quick overview on the sequence.

. Deploy link:../quickstart-pcs[quickstart-pcs] on the `admin` machine.
. Add the RFE `cn1`
. SMD wills fetch components data of machine from RFE
. Add directly the IP of `cn1` in the PostgreSQL database
+
NOTE: This is a hacky way, because I don't know how to add `cn1` IP address in SMD by https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/ochami[ochami cli].
. Configure `BSS`
. Start the `CoreDHCP`
. Boot the `cn1`

== Data folder

This folder has the `data` folder with `csv` files as single source of truth for this entire folder.

The `README` and all the scripts in `hacks` use the `data` folder.

First, think to replace/complete `csv` files contained in `data` folder before following the next steps.

== DHCP configuration

A configuration example.

NOTE: You can create this file by +
`bash hacks/create-dhcp-config.sh`

[source,yaml]
----
include::coredhcp/config.yaml[]
----

== Start OpenCHAMI services

. Clone
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/clone-deployment-recipes.sh[]
----

. Generate environment files
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/generate-config.sh[]
----

. Start (this is the same step to restart by cleaning old volumes)
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/restart-openchami.sh[]
----

== Start DHCP

DHCP is not in the link:../quickstart-pcs[quickstart-pcs].
It has to be start separately.

[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/start-dhcp.sh[]
----

== Start an image server

Start nginx web server

[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/start-image-server.sh[]
----

== Prepare live image

. https://archlinux.org/download/[Download archlinux live] iso on admin machine
. Name it `file.iso`
. Mount it and copy file under `disk-images` folder
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/prepare-live-files.sh[]
----

== Forward port

In this way you can communicate with OpenCHAMI's services directly from your laptop.

[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/ssh-forward.sh[]
----

== Add RFE

Define the BMC's password and add RFE of the host you want.

[source,bash]
----
BMC_PASSWORD=1234 bash hacks/add-rfe.sh cn1
----

== Configure BSS

[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/add-bss-params.sh cn1
----

If you receive a http error 502, restart OpenCHAMI

== Add IP in database

[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/update-ip.sh cn1
----

== Restart DHCP

CoreSMD will fetch data every X seconds from SMD.

To avoid this lap where CoreSMD hasn't the latest new information, IP address. Restart it.

[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/stop-dhcp.sh
bash hacks/start-dhcp.sh
----

== Boot UEFI target

. Turn off the compute node
+
----
bash hacks/transition.sh cn1 force-off
----

. On the BMC interface, set one-time boot option to UEFI Target

. Turn on the compute node
+
[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/transition.sh cn1 on
----

Normally, the node has boot with the arch linux live.

Commit message:

docs: add a note about broken include
Signed-off-by: |°_°| <grivel.theo@protonmail.com>

baremetal/README.adoc, after:

= BareMetal
:toc:
:sectnums:

[quote,Foreword]
____
An virtualize environment is already available in this repository. +
Let's groove metal.
____

NOTE: This README includes files, but GitHub doesn't support this feature, do not hesitate to render html output on your laptop. +
See https://github.com/github/markup/issues/1095[Asciidoctor: support include directives for other asciidoc files #1095].

== Prerequisites

=== Tools

psql:: Communicate with PostgreSQL database
https://github.com/medialab/xan[xan]:: Execute script that read csv files

=== Host file

Add line to `/etc/hosts`

----
127.0.0.1 foobar.openchami.cluster
----

== Short glossary

CN:: compute node
RFE:: redfish endpoint

== Networks

There is two networks:

out of band:: The network for `BMCs`
compute nodes:: The network for compute nodes

[%header,format=csv]
|===
include::data/networks.csv[]
|===

== Machines

Three type of machines:

BMC:: is connected on out of band's network, handle compute node.
Compute node:: is connected on compute nodes' network, is the target of provisioning
Management:: is connected on both network, it communicate with `BMCs` and nodes

[%header,format=csv]
|===
include::data/machines.csv[]
|===

== SSH configuration

Assuming you have access to the management machine with root user by

[source,bash]
----
ssh admin
----

== Components

https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/coresmd[CoreDHCP]:: provide IP and URL to where fetching the `iPXE` script
https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/bss[BSS]:: provide `iPXE` script with kernel and `initrd` parameters
https://github.com/openCHAMI/smd[SMD]:: Contains data for hardware components

== Sequence

Just a quick overview on the sequence.

. Deploy link:../quickstart-pcs[quickstart-pcs] on the `admin` machine.
. Add the RFE `cn1`
. SMD wills fetch components data of machine from RFE
. Add directly the IP of `cn1` in the PostgreSQL database
+
NOTE: This is a hacky way, because I don't know how to add `cn1` IP address in SMD by https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/ochami[ochami cli].
. Configure `BSS`
. Start the `CoreDHCP`
. Boot the `cn1`

== Data folder

This folder has the `data` folder with `csv` files as single source of truth for this entire folder.

The `README` and all the scripts in `hacks` use the `data` folder.

First, think to replace/complete `csv` files contained in `data` folder before following the next steps.

== DHCP configuration

A configuration example.

NOTE: You can create this file by +
`bash hacks/create-dhcp-config.sh`

[source,yaml]
----
include::coredhcp/config.yaml[]
----

== Start OpenCHAMI services

. Clone
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/clone-deployment-recipes.sh[]
----

. Generate environment files
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/generate-config.sh[]
----

. Start (this is the same step to restart by cleaning old volumes)
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/restart-openchami.sh[]
----

== Start DHCP

DHCP is not in the link:../quickstart-pcs[quickstart-pcs].
It has to be start separately.

[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/start-dhcp.sh[]
----

== Start an image server

Start nginx web server

[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/start-image-server.sh[]
----

== Prepare live image

. https://archlinux.org/download/[Download archlinux live] iso on admin machine
. Name it `file.iso`
. Mount it and copy file under `disk-images` folder
+
[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/prepare-live-files.sh[]
----

== Forward port

In this way you can communicate with OpenCHAMI's services directly from your laptop.

[source,bash]
----
include::hacks/ssh-forward.sh[]
----

== Add RFE

Define the BMC's password and add RFE of the host you want.

[source,bash]
----
BMC_PASSWORD=1234 bash hacks/add-rfe.sh cn1
----

== Configure BSS

[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/add-bss-params.sh cn1
----

If you receive a http error 502, restart OpenCHAMI

== Add IP in database

[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/update-ip.sh cn1
----

== Restart DHCP

CoreSMD will fetch data every X seconds from SMD.

To avoid this lap where CoreSMD hasn't the latest new information, IP address. Restart it.

[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/stop-dhcp.sh
bash hacks/start-dhcp.sh
----

== Boot UEFI target

. Turn off the compute node
+
----
bash hacks/transition.sh cn1 force-off
----

. On the BMC interface, set one-time boot option to UEFI Target

. Turn on the compute node
+
[source,bash]
----
bash hacks/transition.sh cn1 on
----

Normally, the node has boot with the arch linux live.
