lanl/docker-compose/README.md, before:

# Deployment Recipe for use with Docker compose

## Deployment Files

- `ochami-services.yml`: The main deployment file. Runs SMD and BSS with JWT
  authentication enabled, plus postgres for SMD/BSS data storage and dnsmasq for
  handling DHCP requests from nodes. Depends on `hydra.yml`. This file can be
  run independently of or alongside `ochami-services-noauth.yml`.
- `ochami-services-noauth.yml`: Like `ochami-services.yml`, but runs SMD and BSS
  with JWT authentication disabled. This file can be run independently of or
  alongside `ochami-services.yml`.
- `ochami-hurl-tests.yaml`: Runs integration tests using Hurl against the
  authentication-enabled BSS and SMD in `ochami-services.yml`.
- `ochami-hurl-tests-noauth.yml`: Runs integration tests using Hurl against the
  authentication-disabled BSS and SMD in `ochami-services-noauth.yml`.
- `ochami-krakend-ce.yml`: Runs the Krakend-CE API gateway for SMD and BSS.
- `hydra.yml`: Runs the Hydra OAuth2/OIDC server used for authentication-enabled
  BSS and SMD.

## Running Deployments

1. Run the `generate-creds.sh` script to generate a `.env` file populated with
   randomly-generated passwords for each Postgres database. This file will be
   read by Docker Compose.
1. SMD and BSS support optional JWT authentication. `ochami-services.yml` runs
   SMD and BSS with it enabled while `ochami-services-noauth.yaml` runs SMD and
   BSS without it.

   To run the services with JWT authentication enabled:

   ```
   docker compose -f ochami-services.yml -f hydra.yml -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml up
   ```

   **NOTE:** Authenticated BSS and SMD run on host ports 27778 and 27779,
   respectively.

   To run the services without JWT authentication enabled:

   ```
   docker compose -f ochami-services-noauth.yml -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml
   ```

   **NOTE:** Non-authenticated BSS and SMD run on host ports 37778 and 37779,
   respectively.

   To run both authenticated and non-authenticated services simultaneously:

   ```
   docker compose \
     -f ochami-services.yml \
     -f ochami-services-noauth.yml \
     -f hydra.yml \
     -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml \
     up
   ```
1. After a minute or so you can check the health of SMD:

   ```
   curl http://<smd_host>:27779/hsm/v2/service/ready
   ```

   Remember to use `<smd_host>:37779` if using unauthenticated SMD.
1. And BSS:

   ```
   curl http://<bss_host>:27778/boot/v1/service/status
   ```

   Remember to use `<bss_host>:37778` if using unauthenticated BSS.

## Running Integration Tests

The integration tests use [Hurl](https://hurl.dev/) to send API calls to SMD and
BSS to perform integration testing. Because there are both authenticated and
unauthenticated versions of SMD and BSS, there are also authenticated and
unauthenticated versions of the integration tests.

To run the authenticated integration tests:

```
docker compose -f ochami-services.yml -f ochami-hurl-tests.yml -f hydra.yml up
```

To run the unauthenticated integration tests:

```
docker compose -f ochami-services-noauth.yml -f ochami-hurl-tests-noauth.yml up
```

To run both the authenticated and unauthenticated integration tests:

```
docker compose
  -f ochami-services.yml \
  -f ochami-services-noauth.yml \
  -f ochami-hurl-tests.yml \
  -f ochami-hurl-tests-noauth.yml \
  -f hydra.yml \
  up
```

## Note on ochami-init errors

Docker compose doesn't dispose of ephemeral volumes unless you run

```
docker compose -f ochami-services.yml -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml -f hydra.yml down --volumes
```

Try disposing of the volumes if you're seeing an error that looks something like
this:

```
ochami-init      | time="2024-01-23T17:58:49Z" level=fatal msg="pq: role \"smd-init-user\" already exists"
postgres         | 2024-01-23 17:58:49.664 UTC [26] ERROR:  role "smd-init-user" already exists
```

Commit message:

Clarify hydra dependency; ochami-hurl-tests.yaml -> ochami-hurl-tests.yml

lanl/docker-compose/README.md, after:

# Deployment Recipe for use with Docker compose

## Deployment Files

- `ochami-services.yml`: The main deployment file. Runs SMD and BSS with JWT
  authentication enabled, plus postgres for SMD/BSS data storage and dnsmasq for
  handling DHCP requests from nodes. Depends on `hydra.yml`. This file can be
  run independently of or alongside `ochami-services-noauth.yml`.
- `ochami-services-noauth.yml`: Like `ochami-services.yml`, but runs SMD and BSS
  with JWT authentication disabled. This file can be run independently of or
  alongside `ochami-services.yml`.
- `ochami-hurl-tests.yml`: Runs integration tests using Hurl against the
  authentication-enabled BSS and SMD in `ochami-services.yml`.
- `ochami-hurl-tests-noauth.yml`: Runs integration tests using Hurl against the
  authentication-disabled BSS and SMD in `ochami-services-noauth.yml`.
- `ochami-krakend-ce.yml`: Runs the Krakend-CE API gateway for SMD and BSS.
- `hydra.yml`: Runs the Hydra OAuth2/OIDC server used for authentication-enabled
  BSS and SMD. This file is a dependency of `ochami-services.yml`.

## Running Deployments

1. Run the `generate-creds.sh` script to generate a `.env` file populated with
   randomly-generated passwords for each Postgres database. This file will be
   read by Docker Compose.
1. SMD and BSS support optional JWT authentication. `ochami-services.yml` runs
   SMD and BSS with it enabled while `ochami-services-noauth.yaml` runs SMD and
   BSS without it.

   To run the services with JWT authentication enabled:

   ```
   docker compose -f ochami-services.yml -f hydra.yml -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml up
   ```

   **NOTE:** Authenticated BSS and SMD run on host ports 27778 and 27779,
   respectively.

   To run the services without JWT authentication enabled:

   ```
   docker compose -f ochami-services-noauth.yml -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml
   ```

   **NOTE:** Non-authenticated BSS and SMD run on host ports 37778 and 37779,
   respectively.

   To run both authenticated and non-authenticated services simultaneously:

   ```
   docker compose \
     -f ochami-services.yml \
     -f ochami-services-noauth.yml \
     -f hydra.yml \
     -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml \
     up
   ```
1. After a minute or so you can check the health of SMD:

   ```
   curl http://<smd_host>:27779/hsm/v2/service/ready
   ```

   Remember to use `<smd_host>:37779` if using unauthenticated SMD.
1. And BSS:

   ```
   curl http://<bss_host>:27778/boot/v1/service/status
   ```

   Remember to use `<bss_host>:37778` if using unauthenticated BSS.

## Running Integration Tests

The integration tests use [Hurl](https://hurl.dev/) to send API calls to SMD and
BSS to perform integration testing. Because there are both authenticated and
unauthenticated versions of SMD and BSS, there are also authenticated and
unauthenticated versions of the integration tests.

To run the authenticated integration tests:

```
docker compose -f ochami-services.yml -f ochami-hurl-tests.yml -f hydra.yml up
```

To run the unauthenticated integration tests:

```
docker compose -f ochami-services-noauth.yml -f ochami-hurl-tests-noauth.yml up
```

To run both the authenticated and unauthenticated integration tests:

```
docker compose
  -f ochami-services.yml \
  -f ochami-services-noauth.yml \
  -f ochami-hurl-tests.yml \
  -f ochami-hurl-tests-noauth.yml \
  -f hydra.yml \
  up
```

## Note on ochami-init errors

Docker compose doesn't dispose of ephemeral volumes unless you run

```
docker compose -f ochami-services.yml -f ochami-krakend-ce.yml -f hydra.yml down --volumes
```

Try disposing of the volumes if you're seeing an error that looks something like
this:

```
ochami-init      | time="2024-01-23T17:58:49Z" level=fatal msg="pq: role \"smd-init-user\" already exists"
postgres         | 2024-01-23 17:58:49.664 UTC [26] ERROR:  role "smd-init-user" already exists
```
